the FED just poured gasoline on the
inflationary fire you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you let
me tell you the FED pivot is here in
today's video I'm going to explain
everything that happened at the FED
press conference and of course what it
means for you many were surprised many
were shocked about what happened today
and I'm going to break it down in
layman's terms so that we can all
understand it and I'm going to show you
why this is so important coming into
2024 all the details let's begin you
could see that the FED holds rates
steady and indicates that three cuts are
coming in 2024 this was the big surprise
because it was a shift in tone from
Jerome Powell in the Federal Reserve
this is the actual press release so of
course as always at 2: p.m. they release
it it comes out the the market reacts
then at 2:30 Jerome Powell comes out on
stage and the reporters start asking
questions they ask softball questions
each and every time now there was
something right at the very very end and
then he Scurry it off stage after he
answered that question that is very
important and I will break that down
it's related to the reverse repos and
the reserves I will break that down in a
video that comes after after this one
because it's so in depth but we'll of
course touch on that in this video today
I want you to note what happened okay
pre prior to the uh actual press
conference this article and many others
like it came out and basically what they
said was Jerome Powell may push back on
rate cuts at the press conference and in
fact it was the opposite it was quite
the opposite the Federal Reserve became
quote dovish and what that means is that
they are willing to reduce their
quantitative tightening at some point
though they have said we're going to
continue on that path they have said at
some point in the near future we're
looking at cutting interest rates and of
course we want a less restrictive policy
that's what he said he also mentioned
the fact that we are not going to wait
and I've said this before in the comment
section many times uh over the last
while that they are not going to wait
for two % and then start cutting rates
it's before they get the 2% that they
start cutting slowly but surely and that
way it doesn't
overshoot many people seemed um you know
confused by that but that's the way it
works and he actually said it a after
you know being asked that question so
let's get that out there right now
they're not waiting for 2% to start
cutting rates it's before that so as
long as they believe they're on the path
to 2% they're going to cut and let's
let's make it very clear and upfront not
real 2% the measurement they use just
like they're going to use uh you know
their course C pce the CPI those
measurements are what they are looking
at fed pivots to rate Cuts as inflation
heads towards their 2% goal so that's
what's going on this is being pared out
there in the media and so we need to pay
attention to it this is what businesses
use this is what the media is going to
you know project this is what the
government is going to utilize for
anything that they are doing they are
not using the real measurements okay
that's why we need to know this stuff
even though it's
manipulated so this is a statement that
was put out there and basically what he
said was it could just be a sign that
the economy is normalizing and doesn't
need the tight policy right right and
that's what's going on because at this
time that's what the market is asking
for there's no question about it that's
what businesses are asking for because
they cannot sustain tight policy and so
they want to go to an easier policy he
made it clear that while quantitative
tightening is going on now at some point
in the future they want to stop that
this shows us that they are unwilling to
ever let go of all of those assets that
they hold they got rid of about 1.2
trillion so far you know maybe that will
come down is it going to be 1.5 trillion
is it going to be two trillion they're
still holding on to at the end of the
day over 77 trillion worth between the
mortgage back Securities and between the
treasuries this is something that it was
unimaginable after the financial crisis
Congress was saying what are you doing
why are you doing this exactly hold on
we got to ask you some questions now
today Congress and everybody else
involved are saying how much more can
you do this is Criminal this institution
should not be involved in this at all in
2020 they were buying mortgage back
Securities sending the price of your
homes going up up and up making it
completely unaffordable of course in
part they were doing that keep interest
rates too low for too long was another
part of that there are many other things
that were out of their control but when
you leave interest ratees super low the
risk taking as a result is very clear
and evident so here we
are Nick timos he works for the Wall
Street Journal he was one of those
people that asked the question during
the press conference and they call him
the FED Whisperer because the suggestion
is they leak information to him he
brings it up out in the Wall Street
Journal and then the public can react to
it and you know it's kind of like an un
unspoken secret but here it is okay he
had this to say the Powell pivot begins
December 1st it would be premature to
speculate on when policy might ease
December 13th rate cuts are something
that begins to come into view and
clearly is a topic of discussion what a
difference two weeks can make so that's
him that's him saying that he's using
the words Powell pivot begins they don't
need to actually go and pivot on their
policy because the forward guidance like
the words they use come before that
that's what they do when they get really
strong like it was very obvious when we
move through this and I covered this
very clearly through this part of the
cycle that they are going to do like
neoc scari all the others out there in
the FED would be so harsh oh no we're
going to bring rates up this High we're
going to do this and we're going to do
that before they actually do anything
and they do so because they can sort of
get a little bit out of the market or
what they are trying to achieve without
actually taking any action on it it
works on the up it works on the down
that's what's going on okay we have
March Fed rate cut expectations at 75
basis points so the market is saying we
are going to see rate Cuts you know
depending on which ones we're looking at
swaps Futures these things all all you
need to know is that the market is
anticipating three rate Cuts 25 basis
Points each and that's with these things
you you'll see these dot plots or the
sep as it is called uh this is just
think of it like the fomc all these uh
members they are going to sit down and
say okay where do I think the FED funds
rate is going to be at in 2023 2024 2025
and so on and you could see the you know
the trajectory and where they believe
that know over the next few years that
will go down uh but the market that
green line down there uh they believe
it's going to be a lot lower than where
the Federal Reserve members do and so
you know just to long and short of it is
that three Cuts they're expecting three
Cuts uh very soon so who knows where
that will end up it all depends on are
we going into a recession if we go into
recession is it going to be that soft
Landing is it going to be harsh that's
one aspect if there's no recession they
start to you know decrease interest
rates and you know things start to calm
down cool down mortgage rates go down we
start to see a little bit more inventory
getting bought up sales start to happen
again you know everything starts to ease
but what happens here prices of stuff
whatever that is will likely continue to
go up that's a big concern and I know
there's some people out there I've seen
your comments that say but that's going
to be like the
1970s that's going to create more
inflation and as a result they'll need
to increase interest rates yet again
look they might increase
at some point they might that's for sure
but you got to understand the policies
of the Federal Reserve are designed to
create inflation it's not an accident
it's not ignorance this is intentional
why would they do that well of course
when they do this as part of a cycle
they are trying to create a bigger and
bigger Gap in between the rich and the
poor and so if we have the rich on top
we have the the poor we got the middle
class in the middle you want them to
they want to squeeze that down so that
we have a very few Rich at the top and
everybody else at the bottom and you do
so through an inflationary policy not
through deflation deflation levels the
playing field because all those with
assets suddenly uhoh not worth so much
of course if they have cash on hand and
things that they could buy things for
Penny on the dollar we did see that
basically many many times before but
it's the inflation which is helping out
the richest of the rich not the
deflation okay keep that in mind
economists who've said that it's going
to require very high unemployment to get
this done are eating their words who
said it my favorite Janet Yellen it
doesn't seem like it at all it's uh
requiring higher unemployment so at this
time
3.7% on the u3 unemployment rate not the
not the real unemployment rate but the
one that they'd like to show you from
the
BLS B is that BLS or is it BS H anyway
uh so that's just telling us
that
basically you know when we measure it
that way certainly you know you don't
have to have that higher unemployment
you don't have to acknowledge the fact
that people have two jobs and three jobs
and four jobs that's fine but what it
tells you is that if the trend continues
they could start to cut interest rates
they could leave their balance sheet at
7 plus trillion dollar and it would
create more gasoline on the inflationary
fire asset prices could continue to rise
look I was arguing with countless people
on the on that Warren Buffett video I
did
recently they didn't watch the video
because I said over and over again that
I talk about inflation not a collapse
where everything suddenly loses value
though we could have that happen the
most likely circumstance is inflation
even if there is a period of deflation
they will turn around and they will
inflate the heck out of it that's what
I'm talking about and I said I
pinpointed the exact bottom of the stock
market back last here why because I
follow the money mirror method it's not
something that is ingenious or anything
I just kind of coined the term and I've
been able to track it anybody that's on
the finance Friday live sessions knows
all about
that and I'm going to break that down
further in the next video after this one
so you've got to like this video you got
to subscribe to make sure that you're
going to be notified of tomorrow's video
this likely won't end up in your feed
for the vast majority of people
anyway we're going to talk about you
know the reverse repos we're going to
talk about the reserves and we will also
talk about this the treasury buyback
plan will boost Market resilience that's
right the BuyBacks now you've heard of
share BuyBacks done by companies all
over the place but treasury can do so
and they can buy back their own debt
it's a very very
some circle Voodoo nonsense that they've
got going on just like the Federal
Reserve does uh but that's coming in
2024 they say that they are going to do
that and I think it's really important
that we pay attention to this because
it's just more and more and more of the
same they're trying to create liquidity
but what are they concerned about H
interesting okay the Comon of the day
says we know the FED pivots asset prices
will explode and inflation will Spike
the FED will be backed into a vuler
corner so nothing is off the table and I
said this never assume that the FED
wants to do what they say they'll do and
that's the thing it's like you know you
got to take it with a grain of salt and
understand what they're really up to
it's not necessarily all true right
that's very important look if you want
to get the details you want to be on top
of it you've got to go to my website
you've got to go here and um you know
there's there's three things that is
compass number one which is a free
financial education program you go
through it it takes like 20 minutes it's
super simple over 1,000 people have been
through it totally free no pay wall no
email address needed nothing go in there
it's Compass okay you also have money
pickle if you're in that pickle you know
you got yourself in some hot water or
something or you just want a second
opinion go there you will get a cfp or
fiduciary you can book a call with them
a 45 minute free call with them link
will be in the description I hope that
you found this informative if you did
hit that thumbs up button but look
tomorrow's video is going to be massive
okay it needed its own separate video
and I hope to see you there see you on
the next one take care